>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we're gonna
start with a quick review of linear
data structures.
So, prior to this course we talked
a lot about linear data structures.
So, for those of you who took my
prior courses, this will be familiar,
if not you should go,
hurry and go look at them.
No, we will review them.
So, our linear data structures are linked
list, array, stack, and queue.
And what do these data
structures have in common?
>> Speaker 2: Order.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so there order.
There's like an obvious order, right?
There's always like a next or
a previous even though there might
not be a pointer to that, for sure.
Anything else?
>> Speaker 3: They're all one dimensional.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, one dimensional.
They have a start and
an end, things like this.
This is what we can expect
with a linear data structure,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Simple,
right, we got this.
It looks easy, right,
cuz it's got the squares and the arrows.
I feel these kind of courses, we have
the circles and the lines, the squares and
the arrows and like, that's so easy.
And then we're like,
look at the code and it's this long.
Cool, let's talk about
the time complexity here.
For an array,
what is the time complexity if inserting
a value at the end of an array?
>> Speaker 2: Constant.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Constant.
What about, let's go around like this.
You can just say you don't know if
you don't know, it's totally fine.
What's the time complexity of
inserting at the beginning, Stephanie?
>> Speaker 2: Constant as well, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Actually, no.
It's actually a linear, because we have
to insert the value at the beginning and
then we have to move
over all of the indices.
So that's a linear operation, cool.
What do you think
the insert in general is?
>> Speaker 3: Also linear.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep,
what about removing from the end?
>> Speaker 3: Constant.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Constant,
what about removing from the beginning?
>> Speaker 3: Also linear.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, linear.
What about generally removing?
>> Speaker 2: Linear.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, very good.
What about finding a value?
>> Speaker 3: Linear.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Linear,
what's the difference between finding and
accessing a value, do you know Eric?
>> Speaker 3: So finding will be
looking through all the values to find
a specific value.
If you're accessing your personal index
and it will a constant time operation.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
absolutely, very good.
So, we're talking about constant and
linear.
These are different types
of time complexity, and
we write them down using big O notation
which means we put an O in front of it,
there's some parenthesis, if it's constant
we put 1, if it's linear we put n.
This should sound familiar and if it's
not sounding familiar, you should see
my previous courses on time complexity
where I break it down more in depth.
All right, so linked list.
So, linked list is a link data structure.
Again, it's linear and
it's nodes connected by
a next property that points
to the next node, okay?
What is the time complexity of
inserting at the end, Michael?
>> Speaker 3: Constant.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, Joe,
what's the time complexity of
inserting at the beginning?
>> Speaker 3: I don't know.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It is also constant.
So this is different than the array,
right, which was linear.
And so this is one of the nice
things about a linked list.
One caveat about inserting
at the end being constant,
that's only true if you have
a reference to the last node.
So if you don't have a reference to last
node, you have to then traverse through
the entire data structure to
get to the end and then add it.
So then, what would time complexity for
that, Michael?
>> Speaker 3: If you're adding to the end?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
if you had to traverse through?
>> Speaker 3: Linear.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Linear, yep.
And Stephanie,
generally inserting to a linked list?
>> Speaker 2: Is linear as well.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Depending, right?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So linear, if you
don't have a reference to the node before
it, or it's constant if you do
have reference to that node, yeah.
And so that's something to note, that's
an optimization for your linked list.
That if you need to insert or remove
to have a reference to that node and
it will make it a constant
time operation versus linear,
where you have to traverse through
the entire data structure.
So same thing for removing.
What about finding a value, Eli?
>> Speaker 2: It's linear.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What about
accessing value, Kareem?
>> Speaker 3: Linear.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
it's actually also linear again,
unless you somehow already
have access to it.
But that doesn't really make sense
in the context of a linked list.
We don't have an index or a key where
you could just quickly look it up.
You only can find the next value or
a particular value through
the connection from a different node.
So,